A case or in this video we're going to take a look at Joines.
So what is a join.
So Joines allow you to retrieve data from multiple tables in a single select statement.
So so far in our select statements we've just looked at single tables but we're going to be using Joines
to retrieve data from multiple tables and to use a join between two tables that needs to be a related
column between the two tables.
So we sit in our coffee store database in the Orders table we have two foreign keys and these foreign
keys are related to columns in the products and the Customers table.
So we can use these columns to join the Order table with the customer and the products table and there
are many different kinds of joins in my school.
And next we're going to take a look at the most common joins.
So the most common joy in your use though you come across is the inner join and the in a join will retrieve
data from the two tables only when there's matching values in both tables.
So you can see in that diagram here we have Table 1 and Table 2.
And it's only going to retrieve the matching values between both tables which is represented by the
blue circle in the middle here.
So if you have data in table 1 and you're joining the table and is missing values it's not going to
retrieve that data from the table and vice versa.
There's data in table 2 but missing values in Table 1 and in a join will not retrieve that data either.
So when you write your escrow queries for Joins the first table that you select from is Table 1 and
then the second table is Table 2.
So the next type of join is a left join and this will retrieve all the data from table 1.
So the left table and only matching rows from the right table.
So you can see here is represented by this blue square.
So it's going to retrieve all that data from table 1 but only matching data from Table 2.
And then the next type of join is a RIGHT JOIN.
Now this is exactly the same as a left join but the tables are switched.
So right join will retrieve all that data from table to the second table you're joining from in your
escrow query and only matching rows from the left table.
So Table 1 and you can see that's represented by the blue circle in the diagram here.
Now in other databases There's also a full join or an outer join which will retrieve all the data from
table 1 and Table 2.
It doesn't matter if there's missing rows in the table.
It would just retrieve all the data from day one and able to put in my.
Well there's no such thing as a full join.
So now that we know about inner joins and left and right joins let's look at writing escrowed queries
for each one in the next videos.